Welcome everyone to the de-bug toolbar overview lecture.
Now we're going to do is install toolbar and go over each panel means in order to actually view the
toolbar in your web site.
You're going to need to make several changes to your settings that py file in your project.
You can check out the Genger debug tool part documentation for helpful hints if you want to follow along
their or helpful hints in case what we do here in this actual video lecture doesn't work for you.
All right.
So like any previous project from the course.
Play around with the settings that py file.
We're going to be choosing Pro 2 from Gengel level 2 because it's a really simple web site that just
shows a list of users for us.
All right we'll head over to the Adam text editor open up pro to install the toolbar and then edit the
settings up-I file and see what that toolbar shows us.
Aurie here I am at the Adam text editor and I've opened up the pro to project those that are o t w o
project from Django level 2.
Let's run the project so we can remember what it actually does say.
Python managed up high run server and it also activated a virtual environment we can sirra here my Django
Ian.
And then this will run at the local host.
So let's go to our browser and open up the local host going to the URL in your browser you should see
something that looks like this working go to slash users to see the user list so let's do that.
They'll say slash users.
And then here you users frap to remember we populated that by running the population script and then
we essentially showed kind of a manual list view.
First Name Last Name email etc..
And this was done manually.
Later on we learned about list views from generic class based list views.
But here's the basic idea of what our app is doing now is trying to add in the Django debug toolbar
to see how that can help us eventually learn more about our application.
We'll head back over to the text editor and install it.
All right back at the text editor here I'm going to control C and quit that server S.O.S.
On my Windows to clear.
You can do clear fear on a Mac or Linux and then we're going to do is inside my virtual environment
say Pipp install jingo dash debug dash toolbar or one line hit enter and this will install the Django
debug toolbar for you know to help forward in time as this finishes installing.
OK now that it's successfully installed the Django debug toolbar what we need to go ahead and do is
edit our settings that py file to make sure that we actually can view the debug Toolbar.
It wouldn't make sense to not have to edit the settings or play file.
Otherwise you would never build turn the toolbar off.
So it makes sense so we have to go to the settings file as shown here add it to our list of applications
and then set it to be viewed.
So it will scroll down the first thing I want to do is make sure are installed apps we have the debug
toolbar so you scroll down install apps make sure that it goes after static files because it relies
on static files and we haven't mentioned this yet and installed apps are loaded in the order of this
list.
So if there's a dependency of one of these applications on a later one list did you make errors.
So usually what you want to do is load up all the default Jingo and default builtin stuff.
Then you will load up applications that you downloaded and then at the very end you'll load up all the
applications that you created.
So after static files write debug underscore toolbar will have a comma there and save that.
So that's the first step we need to do.
Make sure it's actually loaded after static files then we want to set up the your L configuration.
So we want to add a debug toolbars Jor-El's to our projects your configuration which means we'll do
the following.
We'll come over to our project level your Olsdorf PI file.
Remember that's not an application your Elsberry actual project level you are stopped by a file.
Here we have a relatively simple one where we just find your all patterns then what we will do is below
this will say if settings dot debug that way we have to have debug equal to true in our settings or
py file to actually see the debug toolbar.
And in order to use settings here we need to import it so up at the top we will say from Django configuration
in poor settings and all say if settings debug we're going to import debug underscore toolbar and then
once we've done that we're going to reassign your old patterns we'll see patterns.
Is now equal to.
We'll have a list here.
And we're going to call your l.
That's the function we imported up here from config that you're oles and we will pass in using regular
expression.
Carot underscore underscore de-bug underscore underscore forward slash and then will type in include
and passen debug underscore toolbar that you Oreilles and were able to do that because we imported it
here.
Now we still want the rest of these you are all patterns.
So then all we can do is just say plus your old patterns and that's going to reference this previously
created your all patterns so we're essentially concatenating our old your old patterns list with an
additional entry in case settings is the bug.
And we imported debug toolbar.
Then what we need to do is make sure that debug toolbar is listed in our middleware.
So we will save the Urals PI file here.
We'll go back to settings that pi and we could have done this earlier but it doesn't really matter what
order you do this in.
And in your middleware in settings that pi what you will do is add an entry and it will be de-bug underscore
toolbar dot middleware dot debug toolbar middleware and pay attention to capitalization here.
You can always reference the documentation.
They essentially have all these lists all the steps listed out for you.
So it's really easy to follow along.
But all we need to do is add that to middleware and then we're going to save our settings up PI file
once we've added the debug toolbar to the middleware list.
The final thing we have to do on our settings that PI file is add in an internal IPs attribute or a
variable.
So we'll scroll all the way down to the bottom.
It really doesn't matter where you put this but we'll put it all the way in the bottom and all in all
caps say in Turnell underscore IPs and set it equal to a list.
And then as a string we're going to pass in our internal IPs so 6:59 point zero point zero point zero
point zero point 1.
And that basically allows the debug toolbar to know that it should only be operating if you're running
something locally.
That way if someone ends up using your site and you left the debug toolbar in the middleware or something
like that they don't accidentally see it while they're using the site.
This is really only for us which makes sense.
So I will save that to setting up my file and I'll try running this again.
Will say Python managed up-I and whips and it put a space in there more supply run server enter and
then I'm going to hop over to the browser.
All right coming over to your browser you should now see the debug toolbar over on your right hand side
which looks pretty nice.
And if you ever want to hide it so you can see more of your web site.
Just click on this Heidi button and I'll say right here this little tab jingo Deepa toolbar and you
can click on this and it's almost operating like a little javascript add on to our page with a lot more
information.
Let's go through each of these panels and explain what kind of information they're trying to give to
you.
So versions that panel just shows are the versions of things you're using.
For example right now I'm using Django 1.1 0 in my virtual environment and piped them three point five
and the debug toolbar version was one point.
So if using any Python packages this report back the versions which is kind of nice in case you don't
want to have to dig in and look up what versions you're using this will tell you there likely then the
time panel right here just tells you the total time it took to load up this page.
So for example let's go to the slash user's page.
Hit enter and then you'll see here it took a little longer about 400 milliseconds versus this other
page which did have to make any calls to our model took WAY less 15 milliseconds so make sense.
Let's go back to that user's tab because there's basically a sequel query here that is going to be useful
if you click on the settings panel.
This shows you all the settings in your settings that PI file that we don't need to go back to your
text editor.
You can see them all here so I can see for example debug is equal to true which is why I'm able to see
this debug toolbar and all the installed apps app to the book toolbar etc..
So I'm going to close this now.
So far pretty self-explanatory has saved this time from having to go back to the editor.
If the checkout headers here this panel tab shows the APCP request and response headers as well as a
selection of values from the WCI environment down here.
Then next we have the request panel and the request panel just shows you the get or post request so
shows you essentially view information and the cookies.
So this is a little more useful on a page that has a form that we can see the posts or get requests.
And then the data that's associated with them says we're using a really simple web site as our example.
We don't see much information here but in the views that you had that actually have a form which is
trying to get something or post something you'll see that information here on the request panel.
Then we have the sequel panel.
And this essentially shows you the sequel queries including the time to execute and links to try to
explain each query.
So let me close this real quick.
Hopefully you remember that essentially we're doing here in the users for apt to is showing a manual
list view of all the users meaning we had to query our models.
Essentially our sequel database using sequel like and what Django did was it transformed your Python
code into a sequel queery.
And if you want more details on a sequel query you can click here on the sequel panel and then you can
click.
Plus it will show you the sequel queery that it created for us.
So it's select from order by ascending order and you can see here what we actually did in our template.
We said if users were Person and users etc. and it also showed you how much time it took to execute
that query.
Obviously our model was pretty small and our crew was really simple.
So I was only 12 users here or something so it took like point five millisecond was a super fast.
OK.
So that may be useful information especially when you get to a more complicated class based views.
Static files.
We have the static files but this should show you information about them things like the SS or javascript.
That way in case you ever don't get a connection from your Django application to your CSSA files this
can really help you figure out what's going on there.
Then there's the templates.
This just shows you the actual template that it's connected to.
Again pretty useful if it's connecting to a template you don't expect cache.
This is just shows the cache queries right now is so so simple we actually don't really have anything
here.
Then we have signals the signal is just the list of signals or arguments and receivers.
Right now at the level we're programming in this may not make a whole lot of sense.
May not be very useful to you but it much larger projects you may find useful for this tab.
Then finally logging.
We actually haven't been logging anything but in case you ever wanted to use Python's built in logging
module to log things like error messages etc. You could easily accept those and find them here.
And those are all the really useful features of the debug toolbar.
Again right now developing pretty simple web site applications.
And since we're doing everything from the ground up and we essentially write all the code for these
larger clone projects that we've been experiencing the debug toolbar may not be right now the best fit
in your workflow but once you start doing a much larger project working with other people your colleagues
are working at a company or you start using other outside libraries that you may not have written yourself.
The DBA toolbar will hopefully be a really good addition to your workflow.
All right that's it for this section of the course.
Just wanted to show you the debug toolbar what it's capable of and how to set it up in your project.
Thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next section of the course.